---
layout: post
title: Git Notes
description: git learning notes
category: blog
---

# [{{ page.title }}][1]
2013-04-29 By {{ site.author_info }}

## Basic

git init
Initializing a Repository.

git add
Track new files and stage modified files.

git rm --cached <file>...
Unstage files

git reset HEAD <file>...

git diff
See what have changed but not yet staged.

git diff --cached(staged)
See what have staged that will got into next commit.

git commit -a -m 'comments'
Skip the staging area to commit.

git commit --amend
Change last commit. Recommit last commit with currently staged file or(and) change last commit message.

git checkout -- <file>
Unmodify a modified file

master
The default branch name.

HEAD
The pointer to the local branch which is currently on.

git branch <branch name>
Create a new branch.

git branch
List existing branches.
Add -r to list exist remote branches.
Add -a to show both.
./git/refs/heads/ [for local branches]
./git/refs/remotes/ [for tracking branches]

git checkout <branch name>
Switch to an exist branch.

git checkout -b <branch name>
Create a branch and switch to it at the same time.

fast forward
The default approach of merging. When try to merge one commit with a commit that can be reached by following the first commit's history, Git simplifies things by moving the pointer forward because there is no divergent work to merge together. i.e. applies branch changes directly to the master branch and forgets about the branch.

branch tip
A branch tip is the last commit or most recent commit on a branch. Basically it points to the most up to date code in the branch.

git push origin experimental:experiment-by-bob
Push local branch experimental to a branch experiment-by-bob of repository called "origin".

git archive master foo | tar -x -C ~/destination
Archive branch master's foo folder.

Tree-ish
A tree-ish is a way of naming a specific tree which can be one of the following:
References like:
HEAD
Tags
Branch names
Branch names with remotes, like origin/somebranch
Hash
Short hashes

FETCH_HEAD
FETCH_HEAD is a short-lived ref, to keep track of what has just been fetched from the remote repository.

git pull
git pull is combination of a fetch followed by a merge.

git index
The Git index is a staging area between your working directory and your repository. It contains a set of changes that will commit next time.



[1]:    {{ page.url}}  ({{ page.title }})
